readme.md, before:

# NC LIVE Python for Librarians

Scott Bailey\
Digital Research and Scholarship Librarian\
Copyright and Digital Scholarship Center\
NC State University Libraries

## About

Python is a general-purpose programming language widely used in data science, web applications, and scripting to automate common tasks. In this hands-on Introduction to Python workshop, participants will begin learning Python through a brief analysis and visualization of tabular data. While we won't be doing a deep dive into Python syntax, this experience with Python will help participants develop a sense of the language's features and how it might be used in their work.

## Learning goals

The goal of this workshop is to learn about Python and what you can do with it through writing code together to achieve a common task: analyzing tabular data. The goal _is not_ to develop mastery, or even get a solid introduction to the language's syntax and patterns. It is to have a hands-on experience doing something practical while learning more about the language.

## Data source

In the workshop, we'll analyze data about public libraries in North Carolina from the State Library of North Carolina (SLNC). I've uploaded a copy of the data to Github for ease of use in this workshop, since SLNC doesn't directly expose a link to the raw data.

You can find the original data [here](https://statelibrary.ncdcr.gov/fy20-statistical-report-north-carolina-libraries-draft).

## Writing and running the workshop code

During the workshop, we'll be writing and running Python code together in a cloud environment. I'll be live coding, with you writing the same code I'm writing on screen. A copy of the workshop materials, with all of the code and instructions, is in the Github repository. Rather than trying to follow my screen, you can pull up those materials as your reference while you type your code.

Clean notebook to code along: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/csbailey5t/nclive/blob/master/nclive_python_clean.ipynb)

If you would prefer not to write code, but just run the code as I've already typed it, you can click the link below to pull up the fully written materials in a code environment.

Fully written workshop materials: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/csbailey5t/nclive/blob/master/nclive_python_filled.ipynb)

## Resources for learning Python

- [A Byte of Python](https://python.swaroopch.com/) is a great intro book and reference for Python
- [Official Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/), including tutorials.
- [RealPython](https://realpython.com/) contains a lot of different tutorials at different levels
- [Automate the Boring Stuff with Python](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/) is a classic and free work that introduces Python by teaching you automate regular tasks.
- [LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/python) is sometimes available for free for folks at higher ed institutions and has several series of video courses related to Python in different contexts.
- [https://www.dataquest.io/](https://www.dataquest.io): a free then paid series of courses with an emphasis on data science
- [Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/introduction-to-python--ud1110), [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python?), [Codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com/catalog/language/python) all have courses, some of which are available for free

Commit message:

Add brief note clarifying instructions on Google Colab

readme.md, after:

# NC LIVE Python for Librarians

Scott Bailey\
Digital Research and Scholarship Librarian\
Copyright and Digital Scholarship Center\
NC State University Libraries

## About

Python is a general-purpose programming language widely used in data science, web applications, and scripting to automate common tasks. In this hands-on Introduction to Python workshop, participants will begin learning Python through a brief analysis and visualization of tabular data. While we won't be doing a deep dive into Python syntax, this experience with Python will help participants develop a sense of the language's features and how it might be used in their work.

## Learning goals

The goal of this workshop is to learn about Python and what you can do with it through writing code together to achieve a common task: analyzing tabular data. The goal _is not_ to develop mastery, or even get a solid introduction to the language's syntax and patterns. It is to have a hands-on experience doing something practical while learning more about the language.

## Data source

In the workshop, we'll analyze data about public libraries in North Carolina from the State Library of North Carolina (SLNC). I've uploaded a copy of the data to Github for ease of use in this workshop, since SLNC doesn't directly expose a link to the raw data.

You can find the original data [here](https://statelibrary.ncdcr.gov/fy20-statistical-report-north-carolina-libraries-draft).

## Writing and running the workshop code

During the workshop, we'll be writing and running Python code together in a cloud environment. I'll be live coding, with you writing the same code I'm writing on screen. A copy of the workshop materials, with all of the code and instructions, is in the Github repository. Rather than trying to follow my screen, you can pull up those materials as your reference while you type your code.

With each notebook, after you click the "Open in Colab" button, click "Copy to Drive" in the notebook to create a copy associated with your own Google account.

Clean notebook to code along: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/csbailey5t/nclive/blob/master/nclive_python_clean.ipynb)

If you would prefer not to write code, but just run the code as I've already typed it, you can click the link below to pull up the fully written materials in a code environment.

Fully written workshop materials: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/csbailey5t/nclive/blob/master/nclive_python_filled.ipynb)

## Resources for learning Python

- [A Byte of Python](https://python.swaroopch.com/) is a great intro book and reference for Python
- [Official Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/), including tutorials.
- [RealPython](https://realpython.com/) contains a lot of different tutorials at different levels
- [Automate the Boring Stuff with Python](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/) is a classic and free work that introduces Python by teaching you automate regular tasks.
- [LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/python) is sometimes available for free for folks at higher ed institutions and has several series of video courses related to Python in different contexts.
- [https://www.dataquest.io/](https://www.dataquest.io): a free then paid series of courses with an emphasis on data science
- [Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/introduction-to-python--ud1110), [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python?), [Codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com/catalog/language/python) all have courses, some of which are available for free
